you can change the world by ordering a
smaller steak but once more steeped in
the great contest of wits between vegan
gains and unnatural vegan to try to
determine who is more mentally disabled
it has come to a contest over the
meaning and moral significance of the
reduce Italian movement and in this
contest Swayze a natural vegan tries to
make reduce at Arianism seem as
intelligent and reasonable as possible
while vegan gains Richard represents
reduce at Arianism as incredibly stupid
who's right and why do our conclusions
matter well they're both wrong reduce
eteri anism is much much more stupid
than vegan gains has told you I'm sorry
that he's been misleading you in this
way but if we're going to start to
understand this unbelievably idiotic
digression from the history and progress
of the vegan movement we have to start
with the legendary lecture from Brian
Kate Minh that kicked off this whole
phenomenon this is to reduce at arianism
with a communist manifesto is the
communism with its rousing battle cry
that you yes you can make the world a
better place by eating a smaller steak
and I can only imagine that this is in a
Star Trek fantasy universe where through
genetic engineering we've come up with
smaller cows I don't know do you think
it's moral or ecological progress if
people eat steak from a veal calf from a
younger cow that's smaller than a fully
grown
if they eat a steak from a cow as
opposed to a fully grown bull or steer
just what how could anyone be stupid
enough to seriously found a new movement
at a counter movement to veganism an
alternative to veganism on the premise
that you can save the planet you can
make the world a better place by eating
a smaller steak here is that argument in
its original context it's only two
minutes long if you're a sincere ethical
vegan this is gonna feel like the
longest two minutes of your life
ladies and gentlemen Brian Caitlin and
this used to happen to me all the time
my friends and family knew that I was a
vegetarian and once in a while we would
go out to eat I'd order bacon with my
eggs and pancakes and they would
literally catch me in the act red-handed
eating a slice of bacon do you know what
it's like for a Jewish vegetarian to be
caught eating bacon that is a double
whammy no one wants to experience with
their morning coffee
so look what I think this means is that
even though we know it would be better
more healthy and environmentally
friendly if everyone just stopped eating
meat this is an ideal a romantic ideal
that we have been unable to achieve we
can learn a lot from vegans and
vegetarians who have so admirably
reduced their meat consumption that they
effectively eat none at all but vegans
and vegetarians can also learn a great
deal from those who simply strive to eat
less meat in many ways the use of
categorical imperatives that we must
never eat meat has put vegans and
vegetarians and those who simply strive
to eat less meat in a boxing match for
moral superiority it's exhausting and as
the data suggests largely unproductive
it is my hope that we can leverage
reduce Italian
a positive and inclusive term of moral
worth to encourage ourselves and others
to eat less meat improving the health
improving our health and the environment
and making a lot of animals very happy
in the process it starts with us all of
us to encourage ourselves and others to
simply eat less meat so this is my
message to you consider eating less meat
this week and be a reducer terian you
can change the world by ordering a
smaller steak I listen to this clip at
least 10 times in preparing this video
and you know the part I find most
slippery and difficult to follow and
disturbing is when he says he says so
graciously that the meat eaters have a
lot to learn from vegans and vegetarians
but that vegans and vegetarians
reciprocally have quote a lot to learn
from us what really does he say after
that what what direction does he take it
in you you just saw it you just saw it
ten seconds ago but can you remember
what his point was what was it that
vegans had to learn with all due
humility from the omnivores of the
planet he makes a segue after showing
you an image of boxers in the boxing
ring to saying in effect the problem
with veganism is that it's based on the
idea of being morally right and it's
exhausting it's exhausting it's
exhausting that's his [ __ ] excuse for
phoning this Kelter movement to veganism
not that veganism is wrong not that it
can be improved upon and it can this
whole channel we have hundreds of videos
exploring ways to improve the vegan
movement no no no that the base
concept of being morally right of doing
the right thing because it's the right
thing to do is exhausting and this comes
from someone who admits to you that
although he was born Jewish and chose to
become vegetarian he never had the
personal integrity self-discipline or
moral fiber to stop eating bacon for
breakfast I'm vegan I've got a lot of
problems in my life being exhausted is
not one of them and feeling like morally
I mean the right is not exhausting to me
it's tremendously reassuring to live in
a world where there's such an
unbelievably gruesome spectacle of
slaughterhouse footage in front of your
face every day a world a society a
civilization that in my case as a
Canadian is built on genocide nothing I
can do about that built on your tax
dollars going to pay for wars you
probably disapprove of nothing I can do
about that long list of unbelievably
revolting tear-jerking ethical problems
I can do nothing about and you know what
here's one here's one I could do
something about every day without having
the kind of power and privilege that
this same guy Ryan Kate Minh has written
all over his resume
all over his CV that you can look up and
read in the internet right now because
you know it's not the fact that he's
born and raised Jewish that matters here
in case you hadn't guessed something I
have in common with Bryan Kate Minh this
guy went straight out of his university
degree even while he was still in
university in two elite level positions
in the most well-funded bureaucratically
powerful side of the ecological movement
within ecology the whole world of people
who want to make a positive difference
from the grandmothers who donate a few
dollars to Greenpeace to the pathetic
penny-pinching people
who try to you know take the little
slivers left over from their bars of
soap and mush them into a new bigger
borrow of soap and who reused their
their shopping bags for that puny tiny
difference this guy is sitting on the
top of the pyramid in terms of power and
privilege and influence specifically in
ecology and that's been his whole career
not even since he finished college while
he was still in college he was handed
this and he cannot find the personal
integrity to live up to his own
convictions on this on just refusing to
eat bacon for breakfast as he says in
the full lecture his only reason he has
no other reason is that he likes the
taste and you know what they say the
proof is in the pudding just looking at
this guy walking back and forth on stage
I don't know if I believe that I don't
know if I believe that what this guy is
addicted to is food just looking at this
guy I have met a lot of people who we
and French would call goon Indies I I
have difficulty believing that of all
the compulsive disorders this guy may
have compulsive overeating I do not
think is one of them I'm not a vegan
well you can safely take a deep sigh of
relief knowing that I am a carnivore
just like you
animals are not treated very well
they're not and they are incredibly
smart and experience pain just like us
so as we look into the eyes of this very
adorable baby pig
we have to ask ourselves why do over 90%
of Americans continue to eat meat bacon
bacon is the reason we need for many the
mere smell of bacon in the morning that
crispy crunchy texture that savory salty
taste my friends and family knew that I
was a vegetarian and once in a while we
would go out to eat I'd order bacon with
my eggs and pancakes and they would
literally catch me in the act red-handed
eating a slice of bacon tell you this
with sincerity not striking a pose I
really don't like the fact that vegan
gains and frame this debate by insulting
a natural vegan calling her an inbred
[ __ ] I really don't like that I really
don't appreciate and it's not like I can
say some of my best friends are inbred
or some my best friends were mean I just
got to tell you I don't like it the
reality is I feel very fortunate that
even within my own family I kind of won
the genetic lottery I have brothers who
were born really seriously mentally
incapacitated I have one brother who was
born so severely [ __ ] that he has
never said a sentence in any language
and I've been born with the capacity to
travel all over the world and study so
many languages and lived this wonderful
life I've lived I have another brother
of course it's much less severe but he
was just born with dyslexia again
ultimately a language impairment and
impairment in the language side of your
brain and I see the way that's totally I
don't know shaped the development of his
character his career and
life okay mental disability is real and
most of the time it's no laughing matter
and it shouldn't be used as a caddy
insult and it's very strange to me to
hear someone who's so openly shares with
the world on YouTube his own list of
symptoms of serious cognitive impairment
insulting unnatural vegan by saying that
she is also somehow cognitively impaired
somehow learning to say book I mean
Richard Richard does not have a
diagnosis
Richard vegan gains okay anyone could
just go through the videos in which you
list off these really really serious
signs of dementia hallucination
depression that's not the whole list
it's not just possible that Richard has
a mental disability I think if anyone
just sat down and kept a tally of the
symptoms he's listening on I think any
reasonable person with him yes in some
sense in some sense whatever the
diagnosis maybe Richard Burgess vegan
gains obviously has some kind of
cognitive dysfunctions some kind of
impairment and you know the person on
the other side of this debate it gives
me absolutely no joy to say it but I am
of the opinion also that unnatural vegan
has some kind of learning disability
after years of interactions with her
years of watching her on YouTube and you
know I wish her the best
so the truth is my brother my brother
who had dyslexia the real problem wasn't
the dyslexia itself
it was the excuse it gave him I've met
other people to other people who had
dyslexia and worked very hard to
overcome that disadvantage
to get PhDs in two very different fields
and one of them he really was a severe
or extreme dyslexic he didn't just have
slight dyslexia and he sat down and
talked with me at length about the
symptoms of the disorder and how it
changes she how it shaped his law
he talked about his period being in the
American military and the Navy and how
you know it really did slow down him
getting to a level where he could get a
university or he got got a PhD in
English literature in the end but he
talked through the type of hard work and
education he embraced to overcome or
compensate for this this disability so
we're all born with different advantages
and different disadvantages in the world
and you know in some ways the greatest
gift is having that that motivation
right the motivation to as I say you
know do the right thing just because
it's it's the right thing to do I mean
when he was he was literally you know
sitting around in a submarine with the
US Navy and you know putting in long
hard hours memorizing poems and then
reading the back challenging that part
of his brain to get better at
recognizing and remember words and
language going through these kinds of
exercises over years and years and he
probably didn't know what the outcome
would be probably didn't know for sure
if any good would come from it right but
he did it for his own improvement and
because it was the right thing to do
okay and that is the ultimate reason why
we have to reject reduce at Arianism
okay
because we don't just do this for the
animals we don't just do it for ecology
we do it because of the type of person
we aspire to be or become and it doesn't
just happen overnight but yeah you put
in years of hard work and that little
bit of discipline to not order bacon and
to read the fine print on a label check
things here and there it becomes second
nature even becomes gratifying and
pleasant and enjoyable and it's
something you can feel positively about
not ashamed of it's like you feel proud
of it's your little tiny contribution to
making the world a better place
globally but within your own life it's a
discipline that massively improves
who you are as a person look guys I'm a
pretty self disciplined person okay I
probably could choose to use cocaine
four times a year and never become an
addict and probably I would never have
any brain damage that was visible to an
employer like I think is a scientific
fact it would cause brain damage but
whether or not that's detectable or
perceptible or actually gets in the way
of my job okay why don't I do that why
don't I take the attitude that Brian
Kaman has Brian Kaman who apparently
finds bacon for breakfast as
irresistible as a crackhead finds a
fresh vial of cocaine if that is his
problem if he's being on the level here
because I don't really know I choose not
to be a reducer terian in relation to to
cocaine I'm not asking you or my
brothers or sisters or sons or daughters
I'm not asking other people around me to
merely reduce and be moderate in the
amount of cocaine they use I'm asking
them to use none at all
because ultimately I'm not asking that
for the sake of the plants or the
ecology or any external variable I'm
inviting you to do that because of who I
think you should aspire to be what it
means to be a good person and what it
means to be a good person in this
society in every society every
historical period has these hard minimum
standards of dignity and indignity of
justice and injustice if you'll want to
use that kind of language fine okay
there is a fear of using labels about
permanent any I understand a natural
vegan saying oh well wouldn't it be
better if we just don't have any labels
if you don't if you don't get caught up
on the labels okay but the label we're
never going to get away from here is two
letters long it's me it's Who am I okay
and my
sir to that question has myriad little
traceable impacts from the decisions I
make every day from the books I read and
the push-ups I do and all the habits and
distractions I refuse to engage in
because of the person I want to be and
the vegan movement is not just for
athletes it's not just for brilliant
people it's not just for people with I
don't know like Brian Kaman who led an
Ivy League education and went into elite
positions in ecological ecological
bureaucracy you know ultimately veganism
is for everybody veganism is for idiots
- and if you have any kind of little
shred of brilliance then in a sense I
think you owe it to yourself and others
to set that positive example and show
the world and tell the world how easy it
is how difficult it is show others
around you who they can be we do that
every day in so many small ways when we
live up to our own standards and when
you don't live up to your own standards
how can you possibly be a political
leader asking others to live up okay
does it matter is this just a question
of academic definitions it matters right
now the number of people playing video
games is growing and growing the market
for video game consoles is shrinking and
shrinking why is that sorry I know I
said this real quickly more people play
video games than ever but if you're a
company like Nintendo or Sega or Sony
the number of people the maximum size
the market for buying a video game
console is smaller as well you know why
this is why people have
a cheaper easier and more convenient
alternative they can play video games on
their phone or tablet and for an 8 year
old kid maybe they don't notice the
difference in quality between you know a
full-scale console system and and some
kind of portable game I'm completely
willing to admit that reduce at Arianism
is a very fundamental threat to veganism
as a movement it's a threat precisely
because it offers something easier and
more convenient catering to the same
need or interest ironically the
fundamental claim made by Brian Kaman
was that when he rolled out this
ideology you can see it in the very
title of that video that he was gonna
unite and unify he was going to end the
battle between vegans and everyone else
and the effect is the exact opposite
right I've just been talking about why
ok I understand when people react very
defensively to veganism when I talk to
people who are from a traditional
religious background for whatever reason
they really feel that veganism is a
threat to their cultural tradition their
heritage to the accumulated experiences
of a thousand years I can relate to that
I can sympathize and I don't deny it
veganism is a threat to basic
assumptions of what's gone on in almost
every culture in the world for a
thousand years five thousand years you
name it okay people react to it as a
threat because it is a threat but by the
same token vegans are going to respond
to the reduce it Aryan movement as a
threat because it genuinely is a threat
and it's a threat that is so
mind-numbing Lee stupid that it can only
appeal to imbeciles and eight-year-olds
but in the same way that the video game
corporations have to reach out and
appeal to millions of in
SILS and eight-year-olds we can't
pretend that veganism is for some
refined intellectual elite who will
easily laugh off statements such as you
can save the world by eating a smaller
steak not everyone is laughing we have
to compete also for the hearts and minds
of the stupidest and the lowest and yes
children teenagers everyone across all
ages in the society okay
reduce that arianism is a real threat to
the future of the vegan movement I don't
suggest making common cause with them
and as harsh as Richards criticism of
the reduce Italian movement is we could
all be even harsher
[Music]
- yen